---
autogen: This file was automatically generated by kernel-doc-text-to-markdown.py
kernel_version: 4.4.47-19-ev3dev-ev3
source_file: drivers/lego/motors/dc_motor_class.c
title: DC Motor Class
---

The `dc-motor` class provides a uniform interface for using regular DC motors
with no fancy controls or feedback. This includes LEGO MINDSTORMS RCX motors
and LEGO Power Functions motors.

### sysfs Attributes

DC motors can be found at `/sys/class/dc-motor/motor<N>`, where `<N>`
is incremented each time a motor is loaded (it is not related to which port
the motor is plugged in to).

`address`
: (read-only) Returns the name of the port that the motor is connected to.

`command`
: (write-only) Sets the command for the motor. Possible values are:

    - `run-forever`: Causes the motor to run until another command is sent.
    - `run-timed`: Runs the motor for the amount of time specified in
      `time_sp` and then stops the motor using the command specified by
      `stop_action`.
    - `run-direct`: Runs the motor at the duty cycle specified by
      `duty_cycle_sp`. Unlike other run commands, changing `duty_cycle_sp`
      while running *will* take effect immediately.
    - `stop`: Stops any of the run commands before they are complete using
      the command specified by `stop_action`.

    Not all commands may be supported. Read `commands` to find out which
    commands are supported for a particular driver.

`commands`
: (read-only) Returns a space separated list of commands supported by the
motor controller.

`driver_name`
: (read-only) Returns the name of the motor driver that loaded this device.
See the list of [supported devices] for a list of drivers.

`duty_cycle`
: (read-only) Shows the current duty cycle of the PWM signal sent to the
motor. Values are -100 to 100 (-100% to 100%).

`duty_cycle_sp`
: (read/write) Writing sets the duty cycle setpoint of the PWM signal sent to
the motor. Valid values are -100 to 100 (-100% to 100%). Reading returns
the current setpoint.

`polarity`
: (read/write) Sets the polarity of the motor. Valid values are:

    - `normal`: Causes the motor to turn in the direction indicated by the
      sign (+/-) of the `duty_cycle_sp`.
    - `inversed`: Causes the motor to turn in the opposite direction of the
      sign (+/-) of the `duty_cycle_sp`.

`state`
: (read-only) Gets a space separated list of flags indicating the motor
status. Possible flags are:

    - `running`: Indicates that the motor is powered.
    - `ramping`: Indicates that the motor has not yet reached the
      `duty_cycle_sp`.

`stop_action`
: (write-only) Sets the stop action that will be used when the motor stops.
Possible values are:

    - `coast`: Causes the motor to coast to a stop by floating the outputs.
    - `brake`: Causes the motor to stop more quickly by shorting the outputs.

    Not all values may be supported. Read `stop_actions` to find out which
    actions are supported for a particular driver.

`stop_actions`
: (read-only) Gets a space separated list of supported stop actions.

`ramp_down_sp`
: (read/write) Sets the time in milliseconds that it take the motor to ramp
down from 100% to 0%. Valid values are 0 to 10000 (10 seconds). Default is
0.

`ramp_up_sp`
: (read/write) Sets the time in milliseconds that it take the motor to up
ramp from 0% to 100%. Valid values are 0 to 10000 (10 seconds). Default is
0.

`time_sp`
: (read/write) Sets the time setpoint used with the `run-timed` command.
Units are in milliseconds. Values must not be negative.

[supported devices]: /docs/motors/#supported-devices

