---
autogen: This file was automatically generated by kernel-doc-text-to-markdown.py
title: HiTechnic NXT Sensor Multiplexer input port driver
---

A `ht-smux-input-port` device is loaded for each port of the HiTechnic NXT
Sensor Multiplexer by the [ht-nxt-smux] driver. The devices are similar to
the [EV3 input port] devices except that they only support two host types,
[nxt-analog-host] and [ht-smux-i2c-host]. This means only NXT sensors
(Analog/NXT and I2C/NXT connection types) will work with the sensor mux.
The new EV3 sensors (Analog/EV3 and UART/EV3 connection types) won't work.
Additionally, I2C sensors connected to the sensor mux cannot be written to.
They operate in a read-only mode, so some features of certain I2c sensors
may not be usable via the sensor mux.

### sysfs attributes

The HiTechnic NXT Sensor Multiplexer I2C input port devices can be found at
`/sys/bus/legoev3/in<N>:mux<M>` where `<N>` is the number of the port on the
EV3 (1 to 4) and `<M>` is the number of the port on the sensor mux (1 to 4).

`modes` (read-only)
: Returns a space separated list of the possible modes, namely `analog` and
`i2c`.

`mode` (read/write)
: Reading returns the currently selected mode. Writing sets the mode. When
the mode is changed, the host ([nxt-analog-host] or [ht-smux-i2c-host])
and any devices form the previous mode are removed and a new host is
loaded. The [nxt-analog-host] will load the generic [nxt-analog] driver.
The [ht-smux-i2c-host] does not automatically load any sensor drivers.

[ht-nxt-smux]: ../hitechnic-nxt-sensor-multiplexer
[EV3 input port]: ../ev3-input-port
[nxt-analog-host]: ../nxt-analog-host
[ht-smux-i2c-host]: ../ht-smux-i2c-host
[nxt-analog]: ../generic-nxt-analog-sensor
