---
autogen: This file was automatically generated by kernel-doc-text-to-markdown.py
kernel_version: 4.4.24-16-ev3dev-ev3
source_file: drivers/lego/sensors/lego_sensor_class.c
title: LEGO Sensor Class
---

The `lego-sensor` class provides a uniform interface for using most of the
sensors available for the EV3. The various underlying device drivers will
create a `lego-sensor` device for interacting with the sensors.

Sensors are primarily controlled by setting the `mode` and monitored by
reading the `value<N>` attributes. Values can be converted to floating point
if needed by `value<N>` / 10.0 ^ `decimals`.

### Identifying sensors

Since the name of the `sensor<N>` device node does not correspond to the port
that a sensor is plugged in to, you must look at the `address` attribute if
you need to know which port a sensor is plugged in to. However, if you don't
have more than one sensor of each type, you can just look for a matching
`driver_name`. Then it will not matter which port a sensor is plugged in to - your
program will still work.

### sysfs Attributes

Sensors can be found at `/sys/class/lego-sensor/sensor<N>`, where `<N>` is
incremented each time a sensor is loaded (it is not related to which port
the sensor is plugged in to).

`address`
: (read-only) Returns the name of the port that the sensor is connected to,
e.g. `in1`. I2C sensors also include the I2C address (decimal), e.g.
`in1:i2c8`.

`bin_data`
: (read-only) Reading the file will give the unscaled raw values in the
`value<N>` attributes. Use `bin_data_format`, `num_values` and the
individual sensor documentation to determine how to interpret the data.

`bin_data_format`
: (read-only) Returns the format of the values in `bin_data` for the current
mode. Possible values are:

    - `u8`: Unsigned 8-bit integer (byte)
    - `s8`: Signed 8-bit integer (sbyte)
    - `u16`: Unsigned 16-bit integer (ushort)
    - `s16`: Signed 16-bit integer (short)
    - `s16_be`: Signed 16-bit integer, big endian
    - `s32`: Signed 32-bit integer (int)
    - `s32_be`: Signed 32-bit integer, big endian
    - `float`: IEEE 754 32-bit floating point (float)

`command`
: (write-only) Sends a command to the sensor. See the individual sensor
documentation for possible commands. Sensors that do not support commands
will return `-EOPNOTSUPP` when writing to this attribute.

`commands`
: (read-only) Returns a space separated list of the valid commands for the
sensor. Returns `-EOPNOTSUPP` if no commands are supported.

`direct`
: (read/write) Allows direct communication with the sensor for using advanced
features that are not otherwise available through the lego-sensor class.
Returns `-EOPNOTSUPP` if the sensor does not support this. Currently this
only works with I2C sensors. For I2C sensors, use `seek` to set the register
to read or write from, then read or write the number of bytes required.

`decimals`
: (read-only) Returns the number of decimal places for the values in the
`value<N>` attributes of the current mode.

`driver_name`
: (read-only) Returns the name of the sensor device/driver. See the list of
[supported sensors] for a complete list of drivers.

`fw_version`
: (read-only) Returns the firmware version of the sensor if available.
Currently only NXT/I2C sensors support this.

`mode`
: (read/write) Returns the current mode. Writing one of the values returned
by `modes` sets the sensor to that mode. See the individual sensor
documentation for a description of the modes available for each type of
sensor.

`modes`
: (read-only) Returns a space separated list of the valid modes for the sensor.

`num_values`
: (read-only) Returns the number of `value<N>` attributes that will return
a valid value for the current mode.

`poll_ms`
: (read/write) Returns the polling period of the sensor in milliseconds.
Writing sets the polling period. Setting to 0 disables polling. Returns
`-EOPNOTSUPP` if changing polling is not supported. Note: Setting `poll_ms`
too high can cause the input port autodetection to fail. If this happens,
use the `mode` attribute of the port to force the port to nxt-i2c mode.
Values must not be negative.

`units`
: (read-only) Returns the units of the measured value for the current mode.
May return empty string if units are unknown.

`value<N>`
: (read-only) Returns the value or values measured by the sensor. Check
`num_values` to see how many values there are. Values with N >= num_values
will return an error. The values are fixed point numbers, so check
`decimals` to see if you need to divide to get the actual value.

`text_value`
: (read-only) Returns a space delimited string representing sensor-specific
text values. Returns `-EOPNOTSUPP` if a sensor does not support text values.

### Events

In addition to the usual "add" and "remove" events, the kernel "change"
event is emitted when `mode` or `poll_ms` is changed. The `value<N>`
attributes change too rapidly to be handled this way and therefore do not
trigger any uevents.

[nxt-i2c-sensor]: ../nxt-i2c-sensor
[supported sensors]: /docs/sensors#supported-sensors

