---
autogen: This file was automatically generated by kernel-doc-text-to-markdown.py
kernel_version: 4.4.47-19-ev3dev-ev3
source_file: drivers/lego/user/user_lego_configfs.c
title: User-defined LEGO devices using configfs
---

This driver provides a [configfs] interface for creating user-defined devices
that use the various ev3dev drivers. Currently, only ports, sensors and LEDs
are implemented. Motors could be added in the future.

# Usage

**Note:** All commands assume root privileges.

Here is an example of how to create a port and a sensor:

* Make sure module is loaded.

        modprobe user-lego-configfs

* Go to the configfs directory for this driver.

        cd /sys/kernel/config/lego_user_device

* Create a new port called `p1`.

        mkdir p1

* Check out the new port - there should be `live` and `sensors` directories.

        cd p1
        ls

* This also creates a new port that is linked to `sys/class/lego-port`.

        ls /sys/devices/lego_user_device/lego-port/

* Now create a sensor named `s1` attached to this port.

        mkdir sensors/s1

* Check out the sensor.

        ls sensors/s1

* These attributes correspond to attributes in the `lego-sensor` class.
  Set them as appropriate. For example...

        echo "my-driver" > sensors/s1/driver_name

* Once the attributes have been set, export the sensor by linking it to `live`.

        ln -s sensors/s1 live

* There will be two new devices created, one is /sys/class/user-lego-sensor
  and one in /sys/class/lego-sensor. The `lego-sensor` class device is used
  just as any other sensor. The `user-lego-sensor` device is used to feed
  data into the sensor. See the [user-lego-sensor driver] docs for more info.

* To remove the sensor and port, perform the operations in reverse.

        rm link/s1
        rmdir sensors/s1
        cd ..
        rmdir p1

[configfs]: https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/filesystems/configfs/configfs.txt
[user-lego-sensor driver]: ../user-lego-sensor

